[SOUND] We can combine
multiple IF statements
together in order to perform multiple
IF- THEN analyses using our data.
This combination called
nesting is powerful and
frequently used in spreadsheet analysis.
Let's explore nesting IF
statements in Problem 8A.
Problem 8A first asks us
to identify the industry of
distributed works in if
they sell products online.
If the distributor does not sale products
online, we are asked to then determine
the distributor's name if they
sell less than $500 of a product.
You can see that this is
a multiple step IF-THEN analysis.
We will break this into two IF statements
to simplify and confirm our logic,
then combine them at the end
into one nested IF statement.
Let's start by determining if
a distributor sells product online
using an IF statement.
Let's check the value of the sales
channel column to see if it is online.
If it is, let's return
the industry of the distributor.
If it is not, let's just let the IF
function return its default value,
which is false, by omitting this
last parameter of the IF function.
We see that, consistent with expectations,
we get an industry value for
distributors who sell online and
a false value for those who do not.
Let's now wrap this in another IF function
to determine the distributor's name if
they sell less than $500 worth of product.
We'll add the second IF function as the
second parameter to the first IF function,
telling IF that we want it to
evaluate this second IF function
only if the test in the first
IF function is false.
We'll have our second IF function
determine whether revenue is less
than $500
and, if it is, return the value from the
distributor column of our exercise table.
If revenue is not less than $500, let's
have the IF function return a blank value.
If we scan the table, we see that there
is only one distributor who does not sell
products online and has revenue less than
$500, and that is Infinity Tracking.
We correctly see their name
returned from our IF function and
correctly see blank values for the other
two distributors who do not sell online.
For the two distributors
who do sell online,
we correctly see their industry
returned from our IF function.
We hope you're getting a sense of
the powerful ways you can combine logical
functions in your own
spreadsheet analysis.
We suggest you refer to Excel's
documentation to learn all of the logical
functions it offers and study ways to
combine these functions to apply complex,
logical analysis of your own data.
Now it's your turn to demonstrate
your understanding of nested
IF functions by completing problem 8B.
[SOUND]